---
title: "Getting Started"
weight: 2
---

## Mandatory Engine & Driver Inputs
The following inputs MUST be configured for normal transmission operation. Input's can be sourced from physical inputs or CAN data. 

>[!TIP] When used with an Emtron ECU, simply enable the Emtron Transmission Control Rx/Tx data streams.

For more info on Emtron ECU Integration, see [here](./tuning/emtron-ecu-integration.md).

### Engine Speed
Engine RPM from the engine ECU is required.

### Engine Torque
Torque data is used extensively by numerous sub systems and must be accurate. The ability of the TCM to control clutch pressures during a shift begins and ends with accurate input torque data.

Both of the following torque inputs are required:

**Engine Torque (Available)**: The amount of engine torque available if no reductions were in place.

**Engine Torque (Supplied)**: The amount of torque that is actually being supplied, inclusive of active reductions such as ignition retards and fuel or ignition cuts.

>[!INFO] Torque should be positive when the engine is accelerating and negative when the engine is decelerating (or being driven by the driveline).

### Pedal & Throttle Position
Pedal position represents the drivers intention and is more useful in most cases than throttle position, which is often manipulated by engine control sub systems.

In the case of a cable throttle (NOT RECOMMENDED), the Pedal Position input function will be OFF. Sub systems that require Pedal Position will fall back to looking for Throttle Position automatically. This excludes any table axes using Pedal Position, which will be required to be changed manually.

**Pedal Position**: Driver pedal position demand.

**Throttle Position**: Engine throttle position or throttle area demand.

### Brake Switch
A switch that shows ON when the brake is applied. This is used by systems such as Takeup and DCT Gear Pre-selection.

### Shift Control Inputs
A combination of inputs that allow the selection of drive modes and gears, such as:
 - Shifter Position
 - Up/Down shift switches
 - Drive mode request buttons or switches

For more info on drive modes see [here](./tuning/drive-modes.md).

## Additional Engine Inputs
The following inputs are recommended to improve the quality of transmission management:
 - Engine Idle Target Speed
 - Engine Idle Status (On/Off)
 - Overrun Fuel Cut Status (On/Off)
 - Engine Temperature

---

## Mandatory Transmission Inputs
These inputs vary based on the transmission in question but most transmissions will require:
 - Input Shaft Speed
 - Output Shaft Speed
 - Transmission Fluid Temperature 

Dual Clutch Transmissions will also require:
 - Clutch Speeds
 - Shift Fork Positions

--- 

## TCM to ECU Output Signals
At the bare minimum, the engine ECU needs to know when to reduce torque (cut) and when to rev-match (blip). Ideally the engine ECU should be listening to torque limit data so that during a shift (or any other time) the TCM is in control of the amount of torque supplied by the engine.

There are many runtime channels generated by the TCM that can be transmitted via CAN or output physically by User Functions driving output pins.

**Useful runtime channels include:**
 - **Gear**: The currently engaged gear.
 - **Next Gear**: Shows the gear that will be shifted into. When not shifting `Next Gear` will show the same as `Gear`.
 - **Previous Gear**: Shows the gear that is being shifted out of. When not shifting `Previous Gear` will show the same as `Gear`.
 - **Up Shift Request**: Normally Off (0). Transitions to On (1) for the entire duration of an up shift.
 - **Down Shift Request**: Normally Off (0). Transitions to On (1) for the entire duration of a down shift.
 - **Up Shift Torque Limit Status**: Normally Off (0). Transitions to On (1) while an up shift torque limit is in place.
 - **Up Shift Torque Limit**: When no limit is in place, this channel will hold the Torque Limit Off value as configured (Eg: 6000nm). During an up shift torque limit, it will show the final torque limit value as requested by the TCM.
 - **Down Shift Rev Match Status**: Normally Off (0). Transitions to On (1) while a down shift rev match is being requested.
 - **Rev Match Target**: Normally 0 RPM. During a rev-match request the desired target RPM is shown.
 - **Rev Match Torque**: Normally 0 NM. During a down shift rev-match request the TCM will calculate the unloaded engine torque required to lift the engine speed to the rev-match target.